---
layout: post
site_name: sonnyksimon
permalink: /weblog/safecode
title: HOWTO: Writing safe code
category: tech
---
Computer programs are something *anyone* can write, and with enough experience - large programs can easily be coded by a single person. Perhaps more important than the program's logic or its functions has to do with how a program can be turned into a product that someone else can use. In a broad sense, the program must be runnable, testable, maintained or extended by **anyone**. 

You cannot/shouldnot use a program which hasn't been tested. Why would you run something on your machine that isn't predictable? Once youve got tests, you're off to a good start. But you need much more than that, you need good documentation (so that anyone might use it, fix it or even extend it). If your program interacts externally (communicates), it might be a good idea to test those interactions, consider every possible unit you could think of that's measurable (program memory, I/O, space, time-to-execute). 

Most problems with what you're working on probably happen because of communications, and you can do even better. There's nothing wrong with having too many test cases. Let's just say I have N things which I need to communicate with. There are a whopping (N+1)! cases I can theoretically test for (! means factorial), not even considering what factors might affect the interaction. And most industry code isn't that well tested to boot.

This is why making a good piece of software takes so long, only a fraction of time is spent programming, and the rest is figuring the darn thing out.
